Multivariate analysis of maize disease resistances suggests a pleiotropic genetic basis and
implicates a GST gene
structured association mapping 
analysis of correlated complex traits 
identification of pleiotropic genes.
The multivariate analytical approach 
traits exhibiting correlation
high positive genetic correlations between resistances to three diseases.
pleiotropic effects:  
    clusters of quantitative trait loci for different diseases
    one gene repons to different diseases
253 maize inbred lines with global variation
southern leaf blight
northern leaf blight
gray leaf spot 
The pathogens are 
    in the same taxonomic class and 
    share some aspects of pathogenesis 
they do so for different periods of time before causing host cell death: 
2 to 3 d for Ch, 
approximately 3 wk for Czm/Cz, 
and approximately 2 wk for St
all three fungi derive their nutrition from dead host cells and reproduce on the surface of dead tissue
Aspects of pathogenesis that are unique to each disease could require distinct host
mechanisms, pathways, and genes that confer single disease resistance.
In contrast, MDR may be mediated by host mechanisms that respond to shared aspects of pathogenesis.


The proportions of genotypic variance
estimated to be due to additive variance for SLB, GLS, and
NLB were 95%, 100%, and 97%, respectively. This suggested
that additive epistatic variance was a relatively insignificant component
of the genotypic variance.

The accuracy of K-based
partitioning of genotypic variance has not been fully investigated;
therefore, our inference should be taken with some caution.

High positive (>0.5) genetic correlations were
detected between all pairwise trait combinations (Fig. 1 and
Table 1). The genetic correlation coefficient between resistance
to GLS and NLB (r = 0.67) was highest and ∼0.10 greater than
that between either of those disease resistances and SLB (r =
0.55 and r = 0.58, respectively).


Each of the traits had high heritabilities (h2 ± SE for SLB was
0.95 ± 0.01, h2 ± SE for GLS was 0.91 ± 0.01, and h2 ± SE for
NLB was 0.87 ± 0.01), indicating that the majority of variation
among inbred lines was attributable to genetic variation, providing
good power to detect causal genes.

Surprisingly,
3 SNP tests withstood multiple test correction at a false
discovery rate of 5.0%. These SNPs were present in the following
three genes:

This was found in a public genetic resource with [[low LD]]
in which genome-wide inference on the pleiotropic effects of individual
genes may be made.

Resistance to SLB was evaluated in five environments
Resistance to GLS was evaluated in three environments
Resistance to NLB was evaluated in three environments

Empirical multivariate best linear unbiased estimators (E-MBLUEs) were
obtained for fixed effects 
and E-MBLUPs for random effects from the above
model.

Functions of variance components, including heritabilities and genetic
correlations as well as their SEs, were calculated using "ASReml" v. 2 (ref. 44,
pp.170–174). 
--Heritabilities-- were estimated on a line mean basis as described
by Holland et al. (45).


Better estimates (those with smaller variances and with known distributional
properties) can be obtained using maximum likelihood methods,
specifically, restricted maximum likelihood (REML). When data are
completely balanced and there are no negative estimates of variance
components under the ANOVA method, the ANOVA and REML variance
component estimates are identical (Shaw 1987). When there are
missing data, resulting in an unbalanced data structure, however, REML
estimates of variance components are more desirable because they are
consistent estimators, asymptotically normally distributed, and their
asymptotic sampling dispersion matrix is known (Shaw 1987; Searle et
al. 1992; Dieters et al. 1995). Modern computers and software have made
REML-based estimates of variance components relatively easy to obtain.
For example, GENSTAT and PROC MIXED of SAS provide robust and
convenient methods for conducting REML analysis of many types of
mixed model designs (Littell et al. 1996; Payne and Arnold 1998; SAS
Institute Inc. 1999).
